README.md, before:

# stuy-gfx-utils

A helper library in C for the Computer Graphics course at Stuyvesant High School, NYC

### How to use this library

Clone the repo or download it, and copy the `gfx_utils` folder into your project folder.

Depending on the relative path to the `gfx_utils` folder, the path of the `include` will change, but should look like
the following:

```
#include "gfx_utils/fout.h"
#include "gfx_utils/netpbm.h"
```

It is also handy to have some `defined` constants:

```
#define FILENAME    "pic1.ppm"
#define XRES        512
#define YRES        512
#define MAX_C_VAL   255
```

To begin working with a picture, we need to initialize it:

```
pixel **pic;
pic = malloc(XRES * sizeof(pixel*));
int i; for (i = 0; i < XRES; i++) {
    pic[i] = malloc(YRES * sizeof(pixel));
}
```

Because we are using `malloc`, it is good practice to `free` this memory after we are done using it:

```
for (i = 0; i < XRES; i++) {
    free(pic[i]);
    pic[i] = NULL;
}
free(pic);
pic = NULL;
```

To write the picture out to a file, we only need a single line:

```
filewrite(FILENAME, pic2string(pic, XRES, YRES, MAX_C_VAL), get_size_of_buff(XRES, YRES, MAX_C_VAL));
```

Replace the parameters as necessary.

Now that we have a 2-D array of pixels, we can directly modify them like such
```
pic[a][b] = new_pixel(red_value, green_value, blue_value);
```

Where `a` and `b` are index values of the array, and the parameters of `new_pixel()` are integers between
0 and 255.

Here is the declaration from the header file:

```
int get_red(pixel p);
int get_green(pixel p);
int get_blue(pixel p);

pixel new_pixel(int r, int g, int b);
```

The names are self explanatory. If you want to change the blue value of a pixel, set it to

```
new_pixel(get_red(p), get_green(p), new_blue_value);
```

Commit message:

Prevent memory leak of picture size and add issue in README

README.md, after:

# stuy-gfx-utils

A helper library in C for the Computer Graphics course at Stuyvesant High School, NYC

### How to use this library

Clone the repo or download it, and copy the `gfx_utils` folder into your project folder.

Depending on the relative path to the `gfx_utils` folder, the path of the `include` will change, but should look like
the following:

```
#include "gfx_utils/fout.h"
#include "gfx_utils/netpbm.h"
```

It is also handy to have some `defined` constants:

```
#define FILENAME    "pic1.ppm"
#define XRES        512
#define YRES        512
#define MAX_C_VAL   255
```

To begin working with a picture, we need to initialize it:

```
pixel **pic;
pic = malloc(XRES * sizeof(pixel*));
int i; for (i = 0; i < XRES; i++) {
    pic[i] = malloc(YRES * sizeof(pixel));
}
```

Because we are using `malloc`, it is good practice to `free` this memory after we are done using it:

```
for (i = 0; i < XRES; i++) {
    free(pic[i]);
    pic[i] = NULL;
}
free(pic);
pic = NULL;
```

To write the picture out to a file, we only need a single line:

```
filewrite(FILENAME, pic2string(pic, XRES, YRES, MAX_C_VAL), get_size_of_buff(XRES, YRES, MAX_C_VAL));
```

Replace the parameters as necessary.

Note that `pic2string` returns a `malloc` allocated memory chunk. You might want
to store that in a variable like `char *s` so you can `free` the memory
afterwards.

Now that we have a 2-D array of pixels, we can directly modify them like such
```
pic[a][b] = new_pixel(red_value, green_value, blue_value);
```

Where `a` and `b` are index values of the array, and the parameters of `new_pixel()` are integers between
0 and 255.

Here is the declaration from the header file:

```
int get_red(pixel p);
int get_green(pixel p);
int get_blue(pixel p);

pixel new_pixel(int r, int g, int b);
```

The names are self explanatory. If you want to change the blue value of a pixel, set it to

```
new_pixel(get_red(p), get_green(p), new_blue_value);
```
